then job answered no doubt you are the
people and wisdom will die with you but
I have understanding as well as you I am
not inferior to you indeed who who does
not know such things as these I am one
mocked by his friends who called on God
and he answered him the just and
blameless who is ridiculed a lamp is
despised in the thought of one who is it
'yes it is made ready for those whose
feet slip the chance of robbers prosper
and those who provoke God are secure in
what God provides by his hand but now
ask the beasts and they will teach you
and the birds of the air and they will
tell you or speak to the thirst and it
will teach you and the fish of the sea
will explain to you who among all these
does not know that the hand of the Lord
has done this in whose hand is the life
of every living thing in the breath of
all mankind does not the ear test words
and the mouth taste its food wisdom is
with aged men and with length of days
understanding with him her wisdom and
strength he has counseled and
understanding if he breaks the thing
down
it cannot be rebuilt if he imprisons a
man there can be no release if he
withholds the waters they dry up if he
sends them out they overwhelmed the
earth with him our strength and prudence
the deceived and the deceiver are his
elite counselors away plundered and
makes fools of the judges roof he
loosens the bonds of kings and binds
their waist with a belt
he leads princes away plundered and
overthrows the mighty he deprives the
trusted ones of speech and takes away
the discernment of the elders pours
contempt on Prince
and disarms the mighty he uncovers deep
things out of darkness and brings the
shadow of death to light
he makes nations great and destroys them
he enlarges nations and guides them he
takes away the understanding of the
chiefs of the people of the earth and
makes them wander in a pathless
wilderness they grope in the dark
without light and he makes them stagger
like a drunken man